OSI model
Open systems interconnection is a reference model for how apps communicate over
a network.

OSI model layers. The main concept of OSI is that the processes of
communication between 2 endpoints in a network are divided into 7 layers. Data
flows through these 7 layers.

Layer 7: Network process to app, 6: Data representation and encryption, 5:
Interhost communication, 4: End-to-end connections and reliability, 3: Path
determination and IP, 2: MAC and LLC (physical addressing), 1: Media, signal,
and binary transmission.

The 7 layers are made up of OS, netword card evice drivers, networking
hardware, and other wireless protocols. 

Layer 7: The application layer. This layer is where communication partners are
identified.

Layer 6: This is part of the OS and converts incoming and outgoing data from
one format to another. From clear to encryped text to send or receive encrypted
text and put it in clear text.

Layer 5: The sessions layer. This coordinates and terminates conversations.
It authenticates and reconnects. The TCP (Transmission Control Protocol) and
UDP (User Datagram Protocol) provides these services.

Layer 4: The transport layer. This layer manages packets of data and delivery
of them. It checks for errors when the data arrives. The internet's TCP and UDP
provides these services for most apps.

Layer 3: The network layer. This handles addressing and routing the data.
Handles the right destination. IP is the network layer for the internet.

Layer 2: The data-link layer. This sets up links across the physical network,
putting packets into network frames. 2 sublayers in this and those are the
logical link control layer and the media access comtroll later (LLC and MAC).
MAC includes ethernet and 802.11 wireless.

Layer 1: The physical layer. This layer conveys the bit stream across the
network either electronically, mechanically, or through radio waves. This layer
covers many devices like cabling, connectors, tranceivers, receivers, and
repeaters.



use man netstat and man ping for more info on OMG THIS IS TOO MUCH STUFF TO
READ ON 1 DAY.


Intro to area netorks, WAN, LAN, other sutff.


